docs: migrate 'migrate between bases' (#5409)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/how-to/change-bases/change-from-core18-to-core20.rst

.. _how-to-change-from-core18-to-core20:

Change from core18 to core20
============================

core20 support in Snapcraft introduces new features and changes that necessitate some
tweaks to your project when transitioning from core18.

Package names
-------------

The ``build-packages`` and ``stage-packages`` keys in a snap's project file specify
which packages need to be incorporated during the build and stage parts of the

> :external+craft-parts:ref:`parts lifecycle <lifecycle>` and described in build and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`parts lifecycle <explanation-parts-lifecycle:>` and described in build and
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5409/commits/4f65784eca2e587e23eef8fce54be68394c837a9

      parts:
        xonotic:
    -     after:
    -       - desktop-glib-only
      apps:
        xonotic:
    -     command: desktop-launch $SNAP/Xonotic/xonotic-linux-sdl.sh
    +     extensions: [gnome-3-34]
    +     command: Xonotic/xonotic-linux-sdl.sh

In the above example, we remove the reference to a remote part ``desktop-glib-only``
and instead use the ``extensions`` key to add the ``gnome-3-34`` extension, which
replaces the functionality of the remote part.

Extension naming
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Not all extensions work on all bases. For example, core18 requires the ``gnome-3-34``
extension and core20 requires ``gnome-3-38``. For example, the `Dwarf Fortress snap's
core migration <https://github.com/ultraviolet-1986/df/pull/3/files>`_ includes:

.. code-block:: diff
    :caption: snapcraft.yaml of Dwarf Fortress

      parts:
        tarball:
    -     after: [desktop-gtk3]
      apps:
        dwarffortress:
    -     command: desktop-launch $SNAP/wrapper.sh
    +     extensions: [gnome-3-38]
    +     command: wrapper.sh

Audio interfaces
----------------

For applications which play or record audio, the interface names have changed.

> Previously the :literalref:`pulseaudio <https://snapcraft.io/docs/pulseaudio-interface>`
> interface was used for both playback and recording of audio. This has been replaced by
> :literalref:`audio-playback<https://snapcraft.io/docs/audio-playback-interface>` and
> :literalref:`audio-record<https://snapcraft.io/docs/audio-record-interface>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously the `pulseaudio <https://snapcraft.io/docs/pulseaudio-interface>`_
interface was used for both playback and recording of audio. This has been replaced by
`audio-playback <https://snapcraft.io/docs/audio-playback-interface>`_ and
`audio-record <https://snapcraft.io/docs/audio-record-interface>`_:
```
